.TH HCT-VARIANTS 1 "Version 0.9"
.
.SH NAME
hct\-variants \- get the variants, i.e. traditional, simplified or semantic
variants, of Han characters, aka Chinese characters
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hct variants
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.br
.B hct variants
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.br
.B hct variants
.RB [ \-q ]
.I INPUT
.PP
(See the
.B OPTIONS
section for alternative long option names)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hct\-variants
is a tool to retrieve the posbile variants of a given Han character.
.br
Variants refer in this context to characters that are equivalent of one
another in some particular way.
.br
On one hand, characters that share the same meaning are referred to as
semantic variants of each other.
.br
On the other hand, Chinese characters may have one or more simplified
or traditional variants.
.PP
A character or a list of characters must be given as an input.
.TP
\fIINPUT\fR shall be one of the following:
A single Han character,
.br
A file containing a list of single Han characters separated by newlines, or
.br
A single hyphen '\-', in which case the input is read from the stdin stream.
.PP
The queried variants will be printed to the stdout stream,
and will be formatted according to the input type.
.TP
Output when a single character is given as an input:
Print the queried variant for the given character to the stdout stream.
.br
If more than one variant character is available, print all the variant
characters separated by a whitespace.
.br
If an error is encountered for the given character, print an explanatory
error message to the stderr stream.
.TP
Output when a list of characters is given as an input:
For each of the listed characters, print the given character and the queried
variant separated by a single tab character to the stdout stream.
.br
If more than one variant character is available, print all the variant
characters separated by a whitespace.
.br
If an error is encountered for any of the listed characters, print the given
character and the error code separated by a single tab character to the
stdout stream.
.br
Additionally, if the stdout stream is not going to a terminal, for instance
when piping it to a file, a brief summary of the used options is included in
the output.
.br
Finally, a progress status message is also shown at the bottom of the
resulting character list as it processes.
The progress status is printed to the stderr stream.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-semantic
Retrieve the semantic variant(s) for the given input.
.TP
.B \-\-simplified
Retrieve the simplified variant(s) for the given input.
.TP
.B \-\-traditional
Retrieve the traditional variant(s) for the given input.
.IP
When multiple variant types are specified, only the last given
option is considered.
.br
If no variant option is specified, the simplified variant(s) are retrieved.
.TP
.BR \-q , \ \-\-quiet
Suppress error messages from the stderr stream.
.TP
.BR \-V , \ \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Character or file processed correctly.
.TP
.B 1
An invalid command line option was given.
.TP
.B 3
An invalid input was given.
.TP
.B 4
One of the internal database files was not found.
.TP
.B 10
The given string has more than one character.
.TP
.B 20
The given character is not present in the IDS database.
.TP
.B 21
The given character is not present in the Variants database.
.TP
.B 22
The given character has no variants for the selected type.
.TP
.B 23
The given character has no valid variants for the selected type.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "hct variants" \ 鯘
Print the simplified variants of 鯘.
.TP
.BR "hct variants" \ 25-chars.txt \ \-\-semantic
Print the semantic variants of all the characters in the specified file.
.TP
.RB "tail \-n5 100-chars.txt | " "hct variants" " \- " \-\-traditional
Print the traditional variants of 5 characters, which are piped from the
.B tail -n5
command.
.TP
.RB "head -n100 5000-chars.txt | " "hct variants" " \- > 100-chars-variants.txt"
Print the simplified variants of 100 characters, which are piped from the
.B head -n100
command and pipe the output into the specified file.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hct-composition(1) ,
.BR hct-components(1) ,
.BR hct-definition(1) ,
.BR hct-reading(1)
.
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported and filed at
https://github.com/omulh/HanCharTools/issues
