.TH HCT-READING 1 "Version 1.0"
.
.SH NAME
hct\-reading \- get the pronunciation of Han characters, aka Chinese characters
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hct reading
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.br
.B hct reading
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.br
.B hct reading
.RB [ \-dq ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR SOURCE_CHAR ] \ INPUT
.PP
(See the
.B OPTIONS
section for alternative long option names)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hct\-reading
is a tool to retrieve pronunciation information, aka the reading, of a given
Han character in different languages.
.br
.B hct\-reading
can alternatively retrieve a basic definition of a given Han character.
.PP
Han characters are normally associated with Chinese language,
however, Chinese is not the only language that uses them.
.br
.B hct\-reading
can provide pronunciation information for the following languages:
Mandarin, Cantonese, Japanese, Sino-Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese.
.PP
A character or a list of characters must be given as an input.
.TP
\fIINPUT\fR shall be one of the following:
A single Han character,
.br
A file containing a list of single Han characters separated by newlines, or
.br
A single hyphen '\-', in which case the input is read from the stdin stream.
.PP
The queried information will be printed to the stdout stream,
and it will be formatted according to the input type.
.TP
Output when a single character is given as an input:
Print the queried pronunciation or definition for the given character
to the stdout stream.
.br
If an error is encountered for the given character, print an explanatory
error message to the stderr stream.
.TP
Output when a list of characters is given as an input:
For each of the listed characters, print the given character and the queried
pronunciation or definition separated by a single tab character to the
stdout stream.
.br
If an error is encountered for any of the listed characters, print the given
character and the error code separated by a single tab character to the
stdout stream.
.br
Additionally, if the stdout stream is not going to a terminal, for instance
when piping it to a file, a brief summary of the used options is included in
the output.
.br
Finally, a progress status message is also shown at the bottom of the
resulting character list as it prints.
The progress status is printed to the stderr stream.
.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.TP
.BR \-d , \ \-\-definition
Get a basic definition for the given input instead of its pronunciation.
.TP
.BR \-q , \ \-\-quiet
Suppress error messages from the stderr stream.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-source \fISOURCE_CHAR\fR
Retrieve the pronunciation for the language that corresponds to
\fISOURCE_CHAR\fR.
.br
A single character out of
.RB [ CKMOUV ]
must be provided, which correspond to
the supported languages as follows:
.br
.B C
-> Cantonese
.br
.B K
-> Korean
.br
.B M
-> Mandarin
.br
.B O
-> Sino-Japanese (On)
.br
.B U
-> Japanese (Kun)
.br
.B V
-> Vietnamese
.IP
Mandarin language is used by default when this option is not specified.
.br
This option is ignored when using the
.B \-\-definition
option.
.TP
.BR \-V , \ \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Character or file processed correctly.
.TP
.B 1
An invalid command line option was given.
.TP
.B 2
An invalid argument for a command line option was given.
.TP
.B 3
One of the internal database files was not found.
.TP
.B 10
The given string has more than one character.
.TP
.B 20
The given character is not present in the IDS database.
.TP
.B 21
The given character is not present in the Readings database.
.TP
.B 22
The given character has no pronunciation information for the selected source.
.TP
.B 23
The given character has no definition information for the selected source.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "hct reading" \ 和
Print the Mandarin pronunciation of 和.
.TP
.BR "hct reading" \ 25-chars.txt \ \-s \ C
Print the Cantonese pronunciation of all the characters in the specified file.
.TP
.RB "tail \-n5 100-chars.txt | " "hct reading" " \- " "\-\-definition"
Print the definition of 5 characters, which are piped from the
.B tail -n5
command.
.TP
.RB "head -n100 5000-chars.txt | " "hct reading" " \- > 100-chars-reading.txt"
Print the Mandarin pronunciation of 100 characters, which are piped from the
.B head -n100
command and pipe the output into the specified file.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hct-composition(1),
.BR hct-components(1),
.BR hct-variants(1)
.
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported and filed at
https://github.com/omulh/HanCharTools/issues
