.TH HCT-COMPOSITION 1 "Version 1.0"
.
.SH NAME
hct\-composition \- get the composition of Han characters, aka Chinese characters
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hct composition
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.br
.B hct composition
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.br
.B hct composition
.RB [ \-qw ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR SOURCE_LETTERS ]
.I INPUT
.PP
(See the
.B OPTIONS
section for alternative long option names)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hct\-composition
is a tool to retrieve the composition of a given Han character by making use
of ideographic description sequences (IDS).
.PP
Han characters are normally associated with Chinese language,
however, Chinese is not the only language that uses them.
.br
.B hct\-composition
also provides information on the source region for each of the composition
options for a given character.
.br
This is given in the form of a letter code, where each of the letters in
[GHMTJKPVUSBXYZ] represents a source region.
.PP
For instance, the retrieved composition information for 周 is as follows:
.PP
⿵⺆𠮷(GTJKPV) ⿵⺆⿱𰀁口(H)
.PP
Here, the first provided option is said to correspond to the regions that match
the source letters GTJKPV, whereas the second option is said to correspond to
the region that corresponds to the source letter H.
.br
See the
.B OPTIONS
section for a description of the source letters and the corresponding
source regions.
.PP
A character or a list of characters must be given as an input.
.TP
\fIINPUT\fR shall be one of the following:
A single Han character,
.br
A file containing a list of single Han characters separated by newlines, or
.br
A single hyphen '\-', in which case the input is read from the stdin stream.
.PP
The queried composition will be printed to the stdout stream,
and it will be formatted according to the input type.
.TP
Output when a single character is given as an input:
Print the queried composition for the given character to the stdout stream.
.br
If more than one option is available, print all the composition options
separated by a whitespace.
.br
If an error is encountered for the given character, print an explanatory
error message to the stderr stream.
.TP
Output when a list of characters is given as an input:
For each of the listed characters, print the given character and the queried
composition separated by a single tab character to the stdout stream.
.br
If more than one option is available, print all the composition options
separated by a whitespace.
.br
If an error is encountered for any of the listed characters, print the given
character and the error code separated by a single tab character to the
stdout stream.
.br
Additionally, if the stdout stream is not going to a terminal, for instance
when piping it to a file, a brief summary of the used options is included in
the output.
.br
Finally, a progress status message is also shown at the bottom of the
resulting character list as it processes.
The progress status is printed to the stderr stream.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-q , \ \-\-quiet
Suppress error messages from the stderr stream.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-source \fISOURCE_LETTERS\fR
Filter out composition options that do not match the desired source region(s).
.br
The desired source regions are specified by the
.I SOURCE_LETTERS
argument, which must contain one or more letters out of
[GHMTJKPVUSBXYZ], where each letter corresponds to the following:
.IP
.B G
-> China
.br
.B H
-> Honk Kong SAR
.br
.B M
-> Macau SAR
.br
.B T
-> TCA / Taiwan
.br
.B J
-> Japan
.br
.B K
-> South Korea
.br
.B P
-> North Korea
.br
.B V
-> Vietnam
.br
.B U
-> Unicode
.br
.B S
-> SAT
.br
.B B
-> UK
.br
.B X
-> Alternative IDS for same glyph structure
.br
.B Y
-> UCS2003 glyphs
.br
.B Z
-> Unifiable or plausible alternative form of the glyph
.IP
This option is ignored when using the
.B --wiktionary
option.
.TP
.BR \-w , \ \-\-wiktionary
Retrieve the composition information from Wiktionary instead of the default
local IDS database.
.br
This method is comparatively slower, and the output format is not as
consistent as when using the default local IDS database.
This might be useful however, to get a composition for the (very few)
characters that do not have a valid composition in the local database.
.TP
.BR \-V , \ \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B hct\-composition
checks for one environment variable on every execution of the command.
.br
Environment variables are specially useful to avoid giving arguments
for a specific option which will be used repeatedly.
.PP
Set the value of the variable
.B HCT_SOURCE_LETTERS
to implicitly specify an argument for the
.B \-\-source
option.
.PP
The environment variable's value can be overwritten by specifying
an argument for the corresponding command line option.
Environment variables are ignored silently if they do not contain
a valid argument for the corresponding option.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Character or file processed correctly.
.TP
.B 1
An invalid command line option was given.
.TP
.B 2
An invalid argument for a command line option was given.
.TP
.B 3
An invalid input was given.
.TP
.B 4
One of the internal database files was not found.
.TP
.B 10
The given string has more than one character.
.TP
.B 20
The given character is not present in the IDS database.
.TP
.B 21
The given character has no valid composition options.
.TP
.B 22
The given character has no composition options for the selected source(s).
.TP
.B 25
The given character does not have a valid Wiktionary entry.
.TP
.B 26
The Wiktionary entry for the given character has no composition information.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "hct composition" \ 周
Print the composition of 周.
.TP
.BR "hct composition" \ 25-chars.txt \ \-s \ GT
Print the composition of all the characters in the specified file,
and filter for compositions from the source regions of China (G)
and Taiwan (T).
.TP
.RB "tail \-n5 100-chars.txt | " "hct composition" \ \- \ \-w
Print the Wiktionary composition of 5 characters, which are piped from the
.B tail -n5
command.
.TP
.RB "head -n100 5000-chars.txt | " "hct composition" " \- > 100-chars-reading.txt"
Print the composition of 100 characters, which are piped from the
.B head -n100
command and pipe the output into the specified file.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hct-components(1) ,
.BR hct-definition(1) ,
.BR hct-reading(1) ,
.BR hct-variants(1)
.
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported and filed at
https://github.com/omulh/HanCharTools/issues
