.TH HCT-DEFINITION 1 "Version 0.9"
.
.SH NAME
hct\-definition \- get a brief definition of single Han characters, aka Chinese characters
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hct definition
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.br
.B hct definition
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.br
.B hct definition
.RB [ \-q ]
.I INPUT
.PP
(See the
.B OPTIONS
section for alternative long option names)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hct\-definition
is a tool to retrieve a brief definition of a given Han character.
.PP
A character or a list of characters must be given as an input.
.TP
\fIINPUT\fR shall be one of the following:
A single Han character,
.br
A file containing a list of single Han characters separated by newlines, or
.br
A single hyphen '\-', in which case the input is read from the stdin stream.
.PP
The queried definition will be printed to the stdout stream,
and it will be formatted according to the input type.
.TP
Output when a single character is given as an input:
Print the queried definition for the given character to the stdout stream.
.br
If an error is encountered for the given character, print an explanatory
error message to the stderr stream.
.TP
Output when a list of characters is given as an input:
For each of the listed characters, print the given character and the queried
definition separated by a single tab character to the stdout stream.
.br
If an error is encountered for any of the listed characters, print the given
character and the error code separated by a single tab character to the
stdout stream.
.br
Additionally, a progress status message is shown at the bottom of the
resulting character list as it processes.
The progress status is printed to the stderr stream.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-q , \ \-\-quiet
Suppress error messages from the stderr stream.
.TP
.BR \-V , \ \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Character or file processed correctly.
.TP
.B 1
An invalid command line option was given.
.TP
.B 3
An invalid input was given.
.TP
.B 4
One of the internal database files was not found.
.TP
.B 10
The given string has more than one character.
.TP
.B 20
The given character is not present in the IDS database.
.TP
.B 21
The given character is not present in the Readings database.
.TP
.B 22
The given character has no definition information.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "hct definition" \ 么
Print the definition of 么.
.TP
.BR "hct definition" \ 25-chars.txt
Print the definition of all the characters in the specified file.
.TP
.RB "tail \-n5 100-chars.txt | " "hct definition" \ \-
Print the definition of 5 characters, which are piped from the
.B tail -n5
command.
.TP
.RB "head -n100 5000-chars.txt | " "hct definition" " \- > 100-chars-definition.txt"
Print the definition of 100 characters, which are piped from the
.B head -n100
command, and pipe the output into the specified file.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hct-composition(1) ,
.BR hct-components(1) ,
.BR hct-reading(1) ,
.B hct-variants(1)
.
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported and filed at
https://github.com/omulh/HanCharTools/issues
