.TH HCT-COMPONENTS 1 "Version 1.0"
.
.SH NAME
hct\-components \- decompose Han characters, aka Chinese characters, into their basic components
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hct components
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.br
.B hct components
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.br
.B hct components
.RB [ \-qv ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR COMPONENTS_FILE ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR SOURCE_LETTERS ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR TIEBREAKER_RULE ]
.I INPUT
.PP
(See the
.B OPTIONS
section for alternative long option names)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hct\-components
is a tool to decompose a given Han character into its most basic components.
.PP
In order to work,
.B hct\-components
internally makes use of recursive calls to the
.BR hct\-composition
command.
To get a full picture of the decomposition process, also see
.BR hct\-composition(1) .
.PP
By default,
.B hct\-components
decomposes the given character into every individual stroke.
.br
For instance, the retrieved components for 须 are as follows:
.PP
㇒㇒㇒一丿丨𠃌丿丶
.PP
However, it is also possible to specify characters other than individual strokes
as basic components.
.br
For instance, if 彡, 丆 and 冂 are considered as basic components,
then the output becomes:
.PP
彡丆冂丿丶
.PP
The order of the retrieved components generally matches the order of
the original character when handwritten.
.br
This is however not always true, so
.B hct\-components
should not be taken as a stroke order retrieval tool.
.PP
A character or a list of characters must be given as an input.
.TP
\fIINPUT\fR shall be one of the following:
A single Han character,
.br
A file containing a list of single Han characters separated by newlines, or
.br
A single hyphen '\-', in which case the input is read from the stdin stream.
.PP
The queried components string will be printed to the stdout stream,
and it will be formatted according to the input type.
.TP
Output when a single character is given as an input:
Print the queried components string for the given character to the
stdout stream.
.br
If an error is encountered for the given character, print an explanatory
error message to the stderr stream.
.TP
Output when a list of characters is given as an input:
For each of the listed characters, print the given character and the queried
components string separated by a single tab character to the stdout stream.
.br
If an error is encountered for any of the listed characters, print the given
character and the error code separated by a single tab character to the
stdout stream.
.br
Additionally, if the stdout stream is not going to a terminal, for instance
when piping it to a file, a brief summary of the used options is included in
the output.
.br
Finally, a progress status message is also shown at the bottom of the
resulting character list as it processes.
The progress status is printed to the stderr stream.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-components \fICOMPONENTS_FILE\fR
Consider the characters listed in
.I COMPONENTS_FILE
as basic components when decomposing the given input.
.br
.I COMPONENTS_FILE
must be an existing file and should consist of a list of single
characters separated by newlines.
.IP
The default single stroke characters are still considered as basic
components even if this option is used.
.TP
.BR \-q , \ \-\-quiet
Suppress error messages from the stderr stream.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-source \fISOURCE_LETTERS\fR
When retrieving the composition of a given character, filter out
composition options that do not match the desired source region(s).
This is specified by the
.I SOURCE_LETTERS
argument, which must contain one or more letters out of
[GHMTJKPVUSBXYZ], where each letter corresponds to the following:
.IP
.B G
-> China
.br
.B H
-> Honk Kong SAR
.br
.B M
-> Macau SAR
.br
.B T
-> TCA / Taiwan
.br
.B J
-> Japan
.br
.B K
-> South Korea
.br
.B P
-> North Korea
.br
.B V
-> Vietnam
.br
.B U
-> Unicode
.br
.B S
-> SAT
.br
.B B
-> UK
.br
.B X
-> Alternative IDS for same glyph structure
.br
.B Y
-> UCS2003 glyphs
.br
.B Z
-> Unifiable or plausible alternative form of the glyph
.IP
To better understand this option, see the
.B hct-composition(1)
command and its identically named option.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-tiebreaker \fITIEBREAKER_RULE\fR
Choose how to deal with cases where more than one valid components
option is available.
This is specified by the
.I TIEBREAKER_RULE
argument, which must be a single letter out of [fl], where each
letter corresponds to the following:
.IP
.B f
-> first, choose the first available components option
.br
.B l
-> length, choose the shortest available components option
.IP
When this option is not specified, the 'first' rule is used.
.TP
.BR \-v , \ \-\-verbose
Print verbose messages to the stderr stream.
.br
Verbose messages describe the decomposition and tiebreaking
process for the currently processed character.
.IP
When this option is used, the
.B \-\-no\-progress
option is implicitly enabled.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-progress
Suppress the progress status from the stderr stream.
.br
This option has no effect when the input is a single character.
.TP
.BR \-V , \ \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B hct\-components
checks for two environment variables on every execution of the command.
.br
Environment variables are specially useful to avoid giving arguments
for a specific option which will be used repeatedly.
.PP
Set the value of the variable
.B HCT_SOURCE_LETTERS
to implicitly specify an argument for the
.B \-\-source
option.
.br
Set the value of the variable
.B HCT_COMPONENTS_FILE
to implicitly specify an argument for the
.B \-\-components
option.
.PP
The environment variable's value can be overwritten by specifying
an argument for the corresponding command line option.
Environment variables are ignored silently if they do not contain
a valid argument for the corresponding option.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Character or file processed correctly.
.TP
.B 1
An invalid command line option was given.
.TP
.B 2
An invalid argument for a command line option was given.
.TP
.B 3
An invalid input was given.
.TP
.B 4
One of the internal database files was not found.
.TP
.B 10
The given string has more than one character.
.TP
.B 20
The given character is not present in the IDS database.
.TP
.B 21
The given character has no valid composition options.
.TP
.B 22
The given character has no composition options for the selected source(s).
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR "hct components" \ 须
Print the components of 须 down to every individual stroke.
.TP
.BR "hct components" \ 25-chars.txt \ \-c \ additional-component-list.txt
Print the basic components of all the characters in the specified
file, while doing so, consider the characters in the second
specified file as basic components.
.TP
.RB "tail \-n5 100-chars.txt | " "hct components" \ \- \ \-s \ G
Print the basic components of 5 characters, which are piped from the
.B tail -n5
command, and while doing so, filter for compositions that match
the source region of China (G).
.TP
.RB "head -n100 5000-chars.txt | " "hct components" " \- > 100-chars-components.txt"
Print the basic components of 100 characters, which are piped from the
.B head -n100
command, and pipe the output into the specified file.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hct-composition(1) ,
.BR hct-definition(1) ,
.BR hct-reading(1) ,
.BR hct-variants(1)
.
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported and filed at
https://github.com/omulh/HanCharTools/issues
